---
layout: default
title: 2020-01 Kidney
parent: Community Calls
---
<script src="https://kit.fontawesome.com/fc66878563.js" crossorigin="anonymous"></script>
# January, 2020 Community Call - <THEME>

*Presenters:* 

**Anna Greka** - Broad Institute

**Becky Steck** - Michigan Medicine

**Evren Azeloglu** - Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai

## <i class="fas fa-chalkboard-teacher"></i> Slides:
- [Development and implementation of a metadata structure in the Kidney Precision Medicine Project (KPMP): clinical, histological, and experimental data capture process - Becky Steck & Evren Azeloglu](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1kuLmInF9KXMs7U_9Lsp7O3Bqo2CrDf1I6WSejbyDs0A)

## <i class="fas fa-video"></i> Video recording:
<iframe src="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1fSFdpFkkqIM9mBw6cax82Ef_8mEChbVP/preview" width="640" height="480"></iframe>

## <i class="fas fa-external-link-square-alt"></i> Links:

- [Kidney Cell Atlas](https://chanzuckerberg.com/science/programs-resources/humancellatlas/seednetworks/a-comprehensive-single-cell-atlas-of-the-human-kidney/)
- [Kidney Precision Medicine Project (KPMP)](https://kpmp.org/)
- [KPMP github](https://github.com/KPMP)
- [Kidney Tissue Atlas Ontology (KTAO)](https://github.com/KPMP/KTAO)

## Summary of the January

### <i class="fas fa-search"></i> Key learnings

- Upcoming specific kidney area focus and scATACSeq, slide-seq, HCR/FISH, metabolomics, proteomics
- Harmonising metadata, vocabulary & ontologies between initiatives (KPMP, HubMap, HCA) will help build the atlas
- Strength of engaging directly with the clinicians, pathologists and researchers to address gaps, inconsistencies and errors in the ontologies
- Modular approach to metadata structure design works well for the different data types in the project but had to de-modularise in order to simplify data re-use
- Difficult to use the specifications defined in a spreadsheet to then validate incoming metadata
- Important to engage all points of metadata collection early in the process

### <i class="far fa-comment-dots"></i> Needs from the community
- Way of harmonising metadata across consortia. 
- Need to understand important metadata fields from scATACSeq, slide-seq, HCR/FISH. 
- How to engage with reviewing and updating key ontologies such as UBERON and CL
- Tools for how to define metadata schema 
- Generic validation tools that can be used with per consortium metadata schema
  
### <i class="far fa-lightbulb"></i> Ideas for how to action
- Given it is unlikely that we can conform to one united standard, can we build tools that allow interoperability/translation across all the standards? Are there fields that are “non-negotiable” across all the consortia?
  - Can we have a standard interoperability format that would allow metadata translation?
  - How do we ease the burden of how to map between standards? Are automated tools possible?
- Improve communication with the ontology team or act as an intermediary between researchers/consortia and SPOT?
  - More approachable web resources on how to provide feedback on ontologies
- Can our json validator be used by anyone with schema as json? Is there adequate documentation to enable others to use it?

## Detailed notes

[<i class="fab fa-readme"></i> Read detailed notes](<GOOGLE LINK>){: .btn .btn-green }
